README.rst, before:

Veriloggen
==========

|Build Status|

A library for constructing a Verilog HDL source code in Python

Copyright (C) 2015, Shinya Takamaeda-Yamazaki

E-mail: takamaeda_at_ist.hokudai.ac.jp

License
=======

Apache License 2.0 (http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

Publication
===========

If you use Veriloggen in your research, please cite my paper about
Pyverilog. (Veriloggen is constructed on Pyverilog.)

-  Shinya Takamaeda-Yamazaki: Pyverilog: A Python-based Hardware Design
   Processing Toolkit for Verilog HDL, 11th International Symposium on
   Applied Reconfigurable Computing (ARC 2015) (Poster), Lecture Notes
   in Computer Science, Vol.9040/2015, pp.451-460, April 2015.
   `Paper <http://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-16214-0_42>`__

::

    @inproceedings{Takamaeda:2015:ARC:Pyverilog,
    title={Pyverilog: A Python-Based Hardware Design Processing Toolkit for Verilog HDL},
    author={Takamaeda-Yamazaki, Shinya},
    booktitle={Applied Reconfigurable Computing},
    month={Apr},
    year={2015},
    pages={451-460},
    volume={9040},
    series={Lecture Notes in Computer Science},
    publisher={Springer International Publishing},
    doi={10.1007/978-3-319-16214-0_42},
    url={http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-16214-0_42},
    }

What’s Veriloggen?
==================

Veriloggen is an open-sourced library for constructing a Verilog HDL
source code in Python.

Veriloggen is not a behavior synthesis (or high level synthesis).
Veriloggen provides a lightweight abstraction of Verilog HDL AST. You
can build up a hardware design written in Verilog HDL very easily by
using the AST abstraction and the entire functionality of Python.

Veriloggen is not designed for designing a hardware by programmer
directly, but is for providing an efficient abstraction to develop a
more efficient domain specific language and tools.

Installation
============

Requirements
------------

-  Python: 2.7, 3.5 or later

Python3 is recommended.

-  Icarus Verilog: 0.9.7 or later (but 10.0 is not recommended)

Install on your platform. For exmple, on Ubuntu:

::

    sudo apt-get install iverilog

-  Jinja2: 2.8 or later

Install on your python environment by using pip:

::

    pip install jinja2

-  Pyverilog: 1.1.1 or later

Install from pip (or download and install from GitHub):

::

    pip install pyverilog

-  IPgen: 0.3.1 or later

Install from pip (or download and install from GitHub):

::

    pip install ipgen

Options
-------

-  pytest: 2.8.2 or later
-  pytest-pythonpath: 0.7 or later

These softwares are required for running the tests in tests and
examples:

::

    pip install pytest pytest-pythonpath

-  Graphviz: 2.38.0 or later
-  Pygraphviz: 1.3.1 or later

These softwares are required for graph visualization by
veriloggen.dataflow:

::

    sudo apt-get install graphviz
    pip install pygraphviz

Install
-------

Install Veriloggen:

::

    python setup.py install

On Docker
---------

Dockerfile is available, so that you can try Veriloggen on Docker
without any installation on your host platform.

::

    cd docker
    sudo docker build -t user/veriloggen .
    sudo docker run --name veriloggen -i -t user/veriloggen /bin/bash
    cd veriloggen/examples/led/
    make

Getting Started
===============

You can find some examples in ‘veriloggen/examples/’ and
‘veriloggen/tests’.

Let’s begin veriloggen by an example. Create a example Python script in
Python as below. A blinking LED hardware is modeled in Python. Open
‘hello_led.py’ in the root directory.

.. code:: python

    from __future__ import absolute_import
    from __future__ import print_function
    import sys
    import os
    from veriloggen import *


    def mkLed():
        m = Module('blinkled')
        width = m.Parameter('WIDTH', 8)
        clk = m.Input('CLK')
        rst = m.Input('RST')
        led = m.OutputReg('LED', width, initval=0)
        count = m.Reg('count', 32, initval=0)

        seq = Seq(m, 'seq', clk, rst)

        seq.If(count == 1024 - 1)(
            count(0)
        ).Else(
            count.inc()
        )

        seq.If(count == 1024 - 1)(
            led.inc()
        )

        seq(
            Systask('display', "LED:%d count:%d", led, count)
        )

        return m


    def mkTest():
        m = Module('test')

        # target instance
        led = mkLed()

        uut = Submodule(m, led, name='uut')
        clk = uut['CLK']
        rst = uut['RST']

        simulation.setup_waveform(m, uut, m.get_vars())
        simulation.setup_clock(m, clk, hperiod=5)
        init = simulation.setup_reset(m, rst, m.make_reset(), period=100)

        init.add(
            Delay(1000 * 100),
            Systask('finish'),
        )

        return m

    if __name__ == '__main__':
        test = mkTest()
        verilog = test.to_verilog(filename='tmp.v')
        #verilog = test.to_verilog()
        print(verilog)

        sim = simulation.Simulator(test)
        rslt = sim.run()
        print(rslt)

        # sim.view_waveform()

Run the script.

::

    python hello_led.py

You will have a complete Verilog HDL source code named ‘tmp.v’ as below,
which is generated by the source code generator.

.. code:: verilog

    module test
    (

    );

      localparam uut_WIDTH = 8;
      reg uut_CLK;
      reg uut_RST;
      wire [uut_WIDTH-1:0] uut_LED;

      blinkled
      uut
      (
        .CLK(uut_CLK),
        .RST(uut_RST),
        .LED(uut_LED)
      );


      initial begin
        $dumpfile("uut.vcd");
        $dumpvars(0, uut, uut_CLK, uut_RST, uut_LED);
      end


      initial begin
        uut_CLK = 0;
        forever begin
          #5 uut_CLK = !uut_CLK;
        end
      end


      initial begin
        uut_RST = 0;
        #100;
        uut_RST = 1;
        #100;
        uut_RST = 0;
        #100000;
        $finish;
      end


    endmodule



    module blinkled #
    (
      parameter WIDTH = 8
    )
    (
      input CLK,
      input RST,
      output reg [WIDTH-1:0] LED
    );

      reg [32-1:0] count;

      always @(posedge CLK) begin
        if(RST) begin
          count <= 0;
          LED <= 0;
        end else begin
          if(count == 1023) begin
            count <= 0;
          end else begin
            count <= count + 1;
          end
          if(count == 1023) begin
            LED <= LED + 1;
          end 
          $display("LED:%d count:%d", LED, count);
        end
      end


    endmodule

You will also see the simulation result of the generated Verilog code on
Icarus Verilog.

::

    VCD info: dumpfile uut.vcd opened for output.
    LED:  x count:         x
    LED:  x count:         x
    LED:  x count:         x
    LED:  x count:         x
    LED:  x count:         x
    LED:  x count:         x
    LED:  x count:         x
    LED:  x count:         x
    LED:  x count:         x
    LED:  x count:         x
    LED:  0 count:         0
    LED:  0 count:         1
    LED:  0 count:         2
    LED:  0 count:         3
    LED:  0 count:         4
    ...
    LED:  9 count:       777
    LED:  9 count:       778
    LED:  9 count:       779
    LED:  9 count:       780
    LED:  9 count:       781
    LED:  9 count:       782
    LED:  9 count:       783

If you installed GTKwave and enable ‘sim.view_waveform()’ in
‘hello_led.py’, you can see the waveform the simulation result.

.. figure:: img/waveform.png
   :alt: waveform.png

   waveform.png

Veriloggen Extension Libraries
==============================

Mixed-Paradigm High-Level Synthesis
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  veriloggen.thread.Thread: Procedural high-level synthesis for DMA and
   I/O controls
-  veriloggen.thread.Stream: Dataflow-based high-level synthesis for
   high-performance stream processing

Frequently-used Abstractions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  veriloggen.verilog: Verilog HDL source code synthesis and import APIs
-  veriloggen.simulation: Simulation APIs via Verilog simulators
-  veriloggen.seq: Synchronous circuit builder (Seq)
-  veriloggen.fsm: Finite state machine builder (FSM)

Please see examples and tests directories for many examples.

Related Project
===============

`Pyverilog <https://github.com/PyHDI/Pyverilog>`__ - Python-based
Hardware Design Processing Toolkit for Verilog HDL

`IPgen <https://github.com/PyHDI/ipgen>`__ - IP-core package generator
for AXI4/Avalon

.. |Build Status| image:: https://travis-ci.org/PyHDI/veriloggen.svg
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/PyHDI/veriloggen

Commit message:

README and some installation files are updated for numpy.

README.rst, after:

Veriloggen
==========

|Build Status|

A library for constructing a Verilog HDL source code in Python

Copyright (C) 2015, Shinya Takamaeda-Yamazaki

E-mail: takamaeda_at_ist.hokudai.ac.jp

License
=======

Apache License 2.0 (http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

Publication
===========

If you use Veriloggen in your research, please cite my paper about
Pyverilog. (Veriloggen is constructed on Pyverilog.)

-  Shinya Takamaeda-Yamazaki: Pyverilog: A Python-based Hardware Design
   Processing Toolkit for Verilog HDL, 11th International Symposium on
   Applied Reconfigurable Computing (ARC 2015) (Poster), Lecture Notes
   in Computer Science, Vol.9040/2015, pp.451-460, April 2015.
   `Paper <http://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-16214-0_42>`__

::

    @inproceedings{Takamaeda:2015:ARC:Pyverilog,
    title={Pyverilog: A Python-Based Hardware Design Processing Toolkit for Verilog HDL},
    author={Takamaeda-Yamazaki, Shinya},
    booktitle={Applied Reconfigurable Computing},
    month={Apr},
    year={2015},
    pages={451-460},
    volume={9040},
    series={Lecture Notes in Computer Science},
    publisher={Springer International Publishing},
    doi={10.1007/978-3-319-16214-0_42},
    url={http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-16214-0_42},
    }

What’s Veriloggen?
==================

Veriloggen is an open-sourced library for constructing a Verilog HDL
source code in Python.

Veriloggen is not a behavior synthesis (or high level synthesis).
Veriloggen provides a lightweight abstraction of Verilog HDL AST. You
can build up a hardware design written in Verilog HDL very easily by
using the AST abstraction and the entire functionality of Python.

Veriloggen is not designed for designing a hardware by programmer
directly, but is for providing an efficient abstraction to develop a
more efficient domain specific language and tools.

Installation
============

Requirements
------------

-  Python: 2.7, 3.5 or later

Python3 is recommended.

-  Icarus Verilog: 0.9.7 or later (but 10.0 is not recommended)

Install on your platform. For exmple, on Ubuntu:

::

    sudo apt-get install iverilog

-  Jinja2: 2.8 or later

Install on your python environment by using pip:

::

    pip install jinja2

-  Pyverilog: 1.1.1 or later

Install from pip (or download and install from GitHub):

::

    pip install pyverilog

-  IPgen: 0.3.1 or later

Install from pip (or download and install from GitHub):

::

    pip install ipgen

Options
-------

-  pytest: 2.8.2 or later
-  pytest-pythonpath: 0.7 or later

These softwares are required for running the tests in tests and
examples:

::

    pip install pytest pytest-pythonpath

-  Graphviz: 2.38.0 or later
-  Pygraphviz: 1.3.1 or later

These softwares are required for graph visualization by
veriloggen.dataflow:

::

    sudo apt-get install graphviz
    pip install pygraphviz

-  NumPy: 1.14 or later

This is required for the memory image generation function of
types.axi.AxiMemoryModel from Python list or numpy.ndarray:

::

    pip install numpy

Install
-------

Install Veriloggen:

::

    python setup.py install

On Docker
---------

Dockerfile is available, so that you can try Veriloggen on Docker
without any installation on your host platform.

::

    cd docker
    sudo docker build -t user/veriloggen .
    sudo docker run --name veriloggen -i -t user/veriloggen /bin/bash
    cd veriloggen/examples/led/
    make

Getting Started
===============

You can find some examples in ‘veriloggen/examples/’ and
‘veriloggen/tests’.

Let’s begin veriloggen by an example. Create a example Python script in
Python as below. A blinking LED hardware is modeled in Python. Open
‘hello_led.py’ in the root directory.

.. code:: python

    from __future__ import absolute_import
    from __future__ import print_function
    import sys
    import os
    from veriloggen import *


    def mkLed():
        m = Module('blinkled')
        width = m.Parameter('WIDTH', 8)
        clk = m.Input('CLK')
        rst = m.Input('RST')
        led = m.OutputReg('LED', width, initval=0)
        count = m.Reg('count', 32, initval=0)

        seq = Seq(m, 'seq', clk, rst)

        seq.If(count == 1024 - 1)(
            count(0)
        ).Else(
            count.inc()
        )

        seq.If(count == 1024 - 1)(
            led.inc()
        )

        seq(
            Systask('display', "LED:%d count:%d", led, count)
        )

        return m


    def mkTest():
        m = Module('test')

        # target instance
        led = mkLed()

        uut = Submodule(m, led, name='uut')
        clk = uut['CLK']
        rst = uut['RST']

        simulation.setup_waveform(m, uut, m.get_vars())
        simulation.setup_clock(m, clk, hperiod=5)
        init = simulation.setup_reset(m, rst, m.make_reset(), period=100)

        init.add(
            Delay(1000 * 100),
            Systask('finish'),
        )

        return m

    if __name__ == '__main__':
        test = mkTest()
        verilog = test.to_verilog(filename='tmp.v')
        #verilog = test.to_verilog()
        print(verilog)

        sim = simulation.Simulator(test)
        rslt = sim.run()
        print(rslt)

        # sim.view_waveform()

Run the script.

::

    python hello_led.py

You will have a complete Verilog HDL source code named ‘tmp.v’ as below,
which is generated by the source code generator.

.. code:: verilog

    module test
    (

    );

      localparam uut_WIDTH = 8;
      reg uut_CLK;
      reg uut_RST;
      wire [uut_WIDTH-1:0] uut_LED;

      blinkled
      uut
      (
        .CLK(uut_CLK),
        .RST(uut_RST),
        .LED(uut_LED)
      );


      initial begin
        $dumpfile("uut.vcd");
        $dumpvars(0, uut, uut_CLK, uut_RST, uut_LED);
      end


      initial begin
        uut_CLK = 0;
        forever begin
          #5 uut_CLK = !uut_CLK;
        end
      end


      initial begin
        uut_RST = 0;
        #100;
        uut_RST = 1;
        #100;
        uut_RST = 0;
        #100000;
        $finish;
      end


    endmodule



    module blinkled #
    (
      parameter WIDTH = 8
    )
    (
      input CLK,
      input RST,
      output reg [WIDTH-1:0] LED
    );

      reg [32-1:0] count;

      always @(posedge CLK) begin
        if(RST) begin
          count <= 0;
          LED <= 0;
        end else begin
          if(count == 1023) begin
            count <= 0;
          end else begin
            count <= count + 1;
          end
          if(count == 1023) begin
            LED <= LED + 1;
          end 
          $display("LED:%d count:%d", LED, count);
        end
      end


    endmodule

You will also see the simulation result of the generated Verilog code on
Icarus Verilog.

::

    VCD info: dumpfile uut.vcd opened for output.
    LED:  x count:         x
    LED:  x count:         x
    LED:  x count:         x
    LED:  x count:         x
    LED:  x count:         x
    LED:  x count:         x
    LED:  x count:         x
    LED:  x count:         x
    LED:  x count:         x
    LED:  x count:         x
    LED:  0 count:         0
    LED:  0 count:         1
    LED:  0 count:         2
    LED:  0 count:         3
    LED:  0 count:         4
    ...
    LED:  9 count:       777
    LED:  9 count:       778
    LED:  9 count:       779
    LED:  9 count:       780
    LED:  9 count:       781
    LED:  9 count:       782
    LED:  9 count:       783

If you installed GTKwave and enable ‘sim.view_waveform()’ in
‘hello_led.py’, you can see the waveform the simulation result.

.. figure:: img/waveform.png
   :alt: waveform.png

   waveform.png

Veriloggen Extension Libraries
==============================

Mixed-Paradigm High-Level Synthesis
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  veriloggen.thread.Thread: Procedural high-level synthesis for DMA and
   I/O controls
-  veriloggen.thread.Stream: Dataflow-based high-level synthesis for
   high-performance stream processing

Frequently-used Abstractions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  veriloggen.verilog: Verilog HDL source code synthesis and import APIs
-  veriloggen.simulation: Simulation APIs via Verilog simulators
-  veriloggen.seq: Synchronous circuit builder (Seq)
-  veriloggen.fsm: Finite state machine builder (FSM)

Please see examples and tests directories for many examples.

Related Project
===============

`Pyverilog <https://github.com/PyHDI/Pyverilog>`__ - Python-based
Hardware Design Processing Toolkit for Verilog HDL

`IPgen <https://github.com/PyHDI/ipgen>`__ - IP-core package generator
for AXI4/Avalon

.. |Build Status| image:: https://travis-ci.org/PyHDI/veriloggen.svg
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/PyHDI/veriloggen
