README.md, before:

Veriloggen
==============================

A library for constructing a Verilog HDL source code in Python

Copyright (C) 2015, Shinya Takamaeda-Yamazaki

E-mail: shinya\_at\_is.naist.jp


License
==============================

Apache License 2.0
(http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)


What's Veriloggen?
==============================

Veriloggen is an open-sourced library for constructing a Verilog HDL source code in Python.

Veriloggen is not a behavior synthesis (or high level synthesis). Veriloggen provides a lightweight abstraction of Verilog HDL AST. You can build up a hardware design written in Verilog HDL very easily by using the AST abstraction and the entire functionality of Python.
 
Veriloggen is not designed for designing a hardware by programmer directly, but is for providing an efficient abstraction to develop a more efficient domain specific language and tools.


Installation
==============================

Requirements
--------------------

- Python: 2.7, 3.4 or later

Python3 is recommended.

- Icarus Verilog: 0.9.7 or later

Install on your platform. For exmple, on Ubuntu:

    sudo apt-get install iverilog

- Jinja2: 2.8 or later
- pytest: 2.8.2 or later
- pytest-pythonpath: 0.7 or later

Install on your python environment by using pip.

    pip install jinja2 pytest pytest-pythonpath

- Pyverilog: 1.0.1 or later

Install from pip:

    pip install pyverilog

Install
--------------------

Install Veriloggen.

    python setup.py install

On Docker
--------------------

Dockerfile is available, so that you can try Veriloggen on Docker without any installation on your host platform.

```
cd docker
sudo docker build -t user/veriloggen .
sudo docker run --name veriloggen -i -t user/veriloggen /bin/bash
cd veriloggen/examples/led/
make
```


Getting Started
==============================

You can find some examples in 'veriloggen/examples/' and 'veriloggen/tests'.

Let's begin veriloggen by an example. Create a example Python script in Python as below. A blinking LED hardware is modeled in Python.
Open 'hello_led.py' in the root directory.

```python
import sys
import os
from veriloggen import *

def mkLed():
    m = Module('blinkled')
    width = m.Parameter('WIDTH', 8)
    clk = m.Input('CLK')
    rst = m.Input('RST')
    led = m.OutputReg('LED', width)
    count = m.Reg('count', 32)

    m.Always(Posedge(clk))(
        If(rst)(
            count(0)
        ).Else(
            If(count == 1023)(
                count(0)
            ).Else(
                count(count + 1)
            )
        ))
    
    m.Always(Posedge(clk))(
        If(rst)(
            led(0)
        ).Else(
            If(count == 1024 - 1)(
                led(led + 1)
            )
        ))
    
    return m

if __name__ == '__main__':
    led = mkLed()
    # led.to_verilog(filename='tmp.v')
    verilog = led.to_verilog()
    print(verilog)
```

Run the script.

```
python led.py
```

You will have a complete Verilog HDL source code that is generated by the source code generator.

```verilog
module blinkled #
(
  parameter WIDTH = 8
)
(
  input CLK,
  input RST,
  output reg [(WIDTH - 1):0] LED
);

  reg [(32 - 1):0] count;

  always @(posedge CLK) begin
    if(RST) begin
      count <= 0;
    end else begin
      if((count == 1023)) begin
        count <= 0;
      end else begin
        count <= (count + 1);
      end
    end
  end


  always @(posedge CLK) begin
    if(RST) begin
      LED <= 0;
    end else begin
      if((count == 1023)) begin
        LED <= (LED + 1);
      end 
    end
  end


endmodule
```


Publication
==============================

Not yet.


Related Project
==============================

[Pyverilog](https://github.com/PyHDI/Pyverilog)
- Python-based Hardware Design Processing Toolkit for Verilog HDL

Commit message:

lib.dataflow supports the visualization of the dataflow by using pygraphviz.

README.md, after:

Veriloggen
==============================

A library for constructing a Verilog HDL source code in Python

Copyright (C) 2015, Shinya Takamaeda-Yamazaki

E-mail: shinya\_at\_is.naist.jp


License
==============================

Apache License 2.0
(http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)


What's Veriloggen?
==============================

Veriloggen is an open-sourced library for constructing a Verilog HDL source code in Python.

Veriloggen is not a behavior synthesis (or high level synthesis). Veriloggen provides a lightweight abstraction of Verilog HDL AST. You can build up a hardware design written in Verilog HDL very easily by using the AST abstraction and the entire functionality of Python.
 
Veriloggen is not designed for designing a hardware by programmer directly, but is for providing an efficient abstraction to develop a more efficient domain specific language and tools.


Installation
==============================

Requirements
--------------------

- Python: 2.7, 3.4 or later

Python3 is recommended.

- Icarus Verilog: 0.9.7 or later

Install on your platform. For exmple, on Ubuntu:

    sudo apt-get install iverilog

- Jinja2: 2.8 or later

Install on your python environment by using pip.

    pip install jinja2

- Pyverilog: 1.0.1 or later

Install from pip:

    pip install pyverilog

Options
--------------------

- pytest: 2.8.2 or later
- pytest-pythonpath: 0.7 or later

These softwares are required for the test of tests and examples.

    pip install pytest pytest-pythonpath

- Graphviz: 2.38.0 or later
- Pygraphviz: 1.3.1 or later

These softwares are required for graph visualization by lib.dataflow.

    sudo apt-get install graphviz
    pip install pygraphviz

Install
--------------------

Install Veriloggen.

    python setup.py install

On Docker
--------------------

Dockerfile is available, so that you can try Veriloggen on Docker without any installation on your host platform.

```
cd docker
sudo docker build -t user/veriloggen .
sudo docker run --name veriloggen -i -t user/veriloggen /bin/bash
cd veriloggen/examples/led/
make
```


Getting Started
==============================

You can find some examples in 'veriloggen/examples/' and 'veriloggen/tests'.

Let's begin veriloggen by an example. Create a example Python script in Python as below. A blinking LED hardware is modeled in Python.
Open 'hello_led.py' in the root directory.

```python
import sys
import os
from veriloggen import *

def mkLed():
    m = Module('blinkled')
    width = m.Parameter('WIDTH', 8)
    clk = m.Input('CLK')
    rst = m.Input('RST')
    led = m.OutputReg('LED', width)
    count = m.Reg('count', 32)

    m.Always(Posedge(clk))(
        If(rst)(
            count(0)
        ).Else(
            If(count == 1023)(
                count(0)
            ).Else(
                count(count + 1)
            )
        ))
    
    m.Always(Posedge(clk))(
        If(rst)(
            led(0)
        ).Else(
            If(count == 1024 - 1)(
                led(led + 1)
            )
        ))
    
    return m

if __name__ == '__main__':
    led = mkLed()
    # led.to_verilog(filename='tmp.v')
    verilog = led.to_verilog()
    print(verilog)
```

Run the script.

```
python led.py
```

You will have a complete Verilog HDL source code that is generated by the source code generator.

```verilog
module blinkled #
(
  parameter WIDTH = 8
)
(
  input CLK,
  input RST,
  output reg [(WIDTH - 1):0] LED
);

  reg [(32 - 1):0] count;

  always @(posedge CLK) begin
    if(RST) begin
      count <= 0;
    end else begin
      if((count == 1023)) begin
        count <= 0;
      end else begin
        count <= (count + 1);
      end
    end
  end


  always @(posedge CLK) begin
    if(RST) begin
      LED <= 0;
    end else begin
      if((count == 1023)) begin
        LED <= (LED + 1);
      end 
    end
  end


endmodule
```


Publication
==============================

Not yet.


Related Project
==============================

[Pyverilog](https://github.com/PyHDI/Pyverilog)
- Python-based Hardware Design Processing Toolkit for Verilog HDL
